# GraphV

A Lightweight Graph Processing Framework on Spark, which is specially designed for unidirectional value propagation algorithms (PageRank, SSSP), and can achieve lower memory footprint and better performance than GraphX. The main design choices is as below:

1. **A cheap and propagation related partitioner.** GraphV adopts a cheap hash-based and propagation related partitioner, in which vertices are evenly distributed among machines with all their propagation-related edges. For unidirectional value propagation algorithms, the value of each vertex is only propagated along one direction, so only incoming edges or outgoing edges are maintained, which can lead to low memory footprint. 
2. **One-step computation model.** GraphV needs only one step for vertex computation in each iteration to handle all the computation and propagation related operations. In such way, GraphV can significantly reduce the computation latency and the amount of messages during the graph computation. 
3. **Locality-aware graph layout.** GraphV organizes the local graph structures in each partition into a locality-aware layout, for the purpose of data access optimization and local computation efficiency. All the vertices and neighbors are represented using local vertex identifiers, and organized based on the roles.
4. **Integrated with GraphX.** GraphV integrates GraphX to construct a dual-engine framework. It inherits the programming model from GraphX to unify the user interfaces. An efficient engine transformation mechanism is also provided to support low cost switch between two engines. 